# 08. Testing Setup

As a developer, we need to take care of Unit & Integration testing.
For that we need to use **React-testing-Library and Jest** [ RTL used jest in background]

    npm i -D @testing-library/react
    npm i -D jest

**add the below key value pair to the scripts part of the package.json**
`"test": "jest"`

Now we need to initialise jest. run the below command to **initiate jest**<br>
`npx jest --init`<br>
and follow the configuration prompts[ choose jsdom & babel ].

**install jest-environment-jsdom** [ missing dependency]

- Upon installing all required libraries and configured jest
  on running 'npm run test' command, We shouldn't get an error
  as we didnt define any tests yet.

- In order to **auto-run the test command**, add the following config to package.json file
  - in scripts property, add `'watch-tests':'jest --watch'`

---

**We can create test files in two ways**.

- Create a folder with exact name ****tests**** and include the test files [ js/ts]. **Any file[js/ts] inside this folder, jest will consider them as test files**.
- Create test files with the mentioned format.
  <filename>.[spec or test].[js or ts or jsx/tsx]

**As a standard practise, we will create **tests** folder and include or test files with .test.js format**.

---

We use jsdom as a dependency, bcoz we are not running our tests in a browser.

jsdom will be used to create a headless browser environment where our tests will be executed by jest in a browser like environment using jsdom. This will be significantly faster compared to checking in browser as here we dont need to complex dom painting operations.

**use jest runner vsCode extension to run each tests individually in the vsCode instead of manually running the npm run test command.**

To view complete testing coverage report, run **npm run test** command and this will generate **coverage** directory.

go to `coverage ->Icov-report -> src and copy path to the index.html`

Now paste this path in the chrome/browser to view detailed coverage report.
